# Finish things

## TLDR

Go and experiment, but finish what is started. It is one of the most important
things because I think you learn if you like something 

## Introduction

One of the problems that I get as a programmer is that I get really excited
about new technology. This is great if you want to research something and you
can get in a weeks's time the basics. And this means I start a lot of stuff. I
like to experiment.

## In search of the shiny object

I think I'm still relatively young in my journey of discovery in the coding
world.  I have been programming (really programming) for roughly two years and
as of this moment I think I have ventured into a lot of different parts.

Knowing a bit of frontend, a bit of backend, some AI, some cyber security among
other things has given me a lot of joy. 

But, here is the problem, with this much choice and knowing all of this
tid-bits of information you get a lot of ideas for a lot of projects but I tend
to not do them. 

This happens because I tend to have this happen to me: "How do they do that?".
"If I could implement it. Where would I start?" Almost all of this come from an
inherent need to build new things.

This has been really helpful because knowing a bit about a lot has made me
understand what I like and what I do not.

## The obvious problem

Ok, so now that I have experimented with a bunch of different programming
languages and fields of technology. I should know what my big project is going
to be, right?

Welp, I still think that this has not happened to me. Every time that I venture
into a part of engeneering or computer science I find amazing communities with
people that are amazing and evryone is really welcoming.

This is a part that I still am in awe by how people can colaborate on gigantic
proyects with basically just the same interest.

And this makes it a bit more difficult on how to decide to wich projects I
should invest my time.

So feeling really confused and not sure on what to do. It was a question that I
had in my head for roughly six months and I wrote a bit before about it.  But I
finally got some grat advice about how to tackle this.

## The advice

> Just finish stuff.
> Michael

So I was chatting with my ex cohost in my past internship that I had. And I
voiced my thoughts on the overwhelming amount of amazing stuff that there
currently is basically everywhere and how it was to much. So here I voice what
he told me:

> Just finish stuff

It's okay to experiment, but what happens to me is that I never know if I love
something for real if I do not invest enough time. I was just doing the simple
things and then keep moving on in pursuit of a newer and shinier object.

So, just finish the projects.

