---
title: "Understanding my country from outside"
date: 2023-07-16
author: "Santiago Pedroza"
---

# Understanding my country from outside

Most of the time I tend to get sad when I see the news. For a long time I
viewed news as entertainment. News outlets inflate stories to have a few more
eyeballs. The consequences of their actions is outrage. I wanted to be informed
and entertained. I did not leave. I decided to watch more of them and from
other countries.

My thesis was that people outside of my country can be more objective of what
happens inside. They are a third party. They should be able to tell fact from
fiction.

I gravitated to see the world from another perspective. Not my own or my
cultural view on topics. As a side product, the news that happened away from me
seemed more like a story. A narrative that is fun to watch and easy to keep
track of.

Watching these new "stories" changed my news consumption and I did not want any
of my depressing local stories. I wanted news from other places.

I realized that I could filter the news that I viewed and I could get only news
from other places.

This new media consumption hobby made me look informed because I was the only
one talking about the different topics that impacted the world. I knew the
natural and political disasters of a lot of countries but my own. I could have
an opinion about US politics. But for my country, I could only tell you the
name of the current president.

I realized media cycles have other purposes. They are informed about the news
but they talk a lot about their culture. I was learning about holidays, museums
and important cultural figures.

I got tired of only learning about countries from news sites. So I decided to
subscribe on Youtube to people from other countries and understand more of
their views. I was living in Mexico but spending four to ten hours a day in
other places. With the internet I could travel, and I wanted to explore.

I could go anywhere in the world. Even if I was not getting the entire picture.
When you get there, you understand these people and how they express the views
of the country they live in.

All of this came with a price. The cost of getting all of this new
entertainment and culture became apparent in the lack of my knowledge of my own
place.

This gave me a tiny cultural crisis. I felt like I did not belong anywhere. But
I realized that it was not important. Because I had become something new that
maybe people back in the day with books could experience it. I felt like a
cultural nobody.

I decided to quit. Viewing other countries and cultures this way is not
sustainable. I am no longer receiving news from other countries, and I stopped
watching the news on my own. I decided to go outside and experience the country
I live in by going outside.


