# Notes on the Harvard Classics

I am reading the Harvard Classics. I started on Monday not knowing how to write
about my time with the 50 volumes. I decided to write them in about Free Form
writing.

The basic idea of free form is that words come cheap and the editing is what
matters. It is almost stream of consciousness to get an actual habit of
writing.

# Volume 1

## On the autobiography of Benjamin Franklin [draft 2]

I knew Benjamin Franklin was related to electricity but that was it. I got
impressed by his life story. He only attended formal education for 2 years.
After a bit of education he started as an apprentice for his father creating
candles and later moved to printing with his brother. There, he started
publishing anonymously and later moved to New York because of disputes with his
brother. In New York he got tricked by the governor and ended up going to
London on the promise of starting a company but with only empty promises. He
was on his own on London and grabbed a job a local press which helped him.
Through out his story it seems amazing to me how Benjamin describes even the
worst things in his life as events that can be passed on. He is stoic but often
cocky. 

After returning and setting up his own press through a partnership. He ends up
generating almost all of the money he made from an almanac. I got impressed
that it was basically a motivational almanac, I guess self-help has always
sold.

Benjamin only ventured on to science until old age. He discovered that
ligthtning was electricity when he was old. 

I think that Elon Musk wants to be like Benjamin Franklin. But Benjamin seems a
still a bit better. Benjamin created fire departments, a university and the
concept of public libraries. I have to admit that both lives have many
parallells between them. Maybe more than I am comfortable with. They both want
to make the world a better place. Constantly innovating and sometimes dabbling
into other areas of knowledge. Both of them really rich. 

The main thing that I liked about this biography was that he was a man that
worked and never stopped learning. He was like 30 when he started to learn the
languages like Spanish, French and Italian. 

I really like the way he wrote. I think that it is an accesible autobigraphie
with a bit of old english mixed in.

## On the jornal of John Woolman
